Kind: captions
Language: en
Hey, welcome to Luke's Dev Lab. It's
great to have you here. So, in this
video, we're going to be looking at Nail
Quen 3.635B
A3B. So, in the previous video, we
looked at Teal, which was based on
ONRIF, and now we're looking at Nail
from Peculiar Ragdoll, which is based on
just the Quen base model. So, you can
see here, these are Ensloft's MTP GGF
quants of Quen 3.6 35b3B with our
improved chat template and force
appended system prompt baked in. So I'll
have this page linked down below if you
want to read more information about
this. And in this video we're going to
be looking at the Q4K XL. So our usual
test suite here performance where we'll
measure the prefill and the decode
memory where we'll test the model's
ability to find data in a large context.
Reasoning for reasoning OpenAI human
eval which is 164 Python challenges
canban will be our front-end web
development test. SAM physics and
dungeon crawler will be our algorithmic
and mathematical capability testing. And
then finally, we ramp up the difficulty
with MCP connecting to Blender to have
the model create an asset and then Godo
for it to create a 3D game. And then
over to my system specs. So I'm using an
RTX 2000 ADA with 16 gigs of VRAM. And
then I've got 32 gigs of DDR4 RAM to
overflow into. I do have an RTX 5090
here, but the RTX 5090 is just used to
speed up some of my tests. And all my
configs and targeting is for 16 gig
GPUs. And you can find my configs linked
on my website in the description and
they are configured for 16 gig GPUs.
So let's kick things off with our
benchmarks first. So we're going to
start off with performance. So I've got
the model loaded in at about 128k
context. We're going to look at the
prefill first, which is the speed at
which the model can ingest tokens. So
starting off at a very short prefill,
I'm getting 176 tokens uncashed, 5,000
cached. Coming up to a large prefill,
I'm getting 238 tokens a second
non-cashed and 206,000 tokens a second
cached. And then coming down to our
decode, which is our token generation
speed. So I'm getting not too far off 50
tokens a second on this model. And
again, this is configured for that RTX
2000 with 16 gigs of VRAM and then
overflowing into that DDR4 system RAM.
So good speeds here for sure. We
probably could even push the
quantization to five or six if you
wanted to. Moving on over to the memory
benchmarks. This is where we fill up the
context of the model. Insert pieces of
data and ask it to find it. Those depths
of the context where we put data are
either at zero, 25, 50, 75, or 100%
depth. Get the model to find the data
three times over for consistency. And
this is telling us that 15 out of 15
runs the model's found it. So at every
depth, three out of three times the
model's found the data. And if we come
and look at our outputs here, it's a bit
of a mixed bag in cleanliness. So this
one is nice and clean, very human
readable. This one is very minimal,
straight to the point. But then
something like this, you can see we've
got quite a lot of output here, quite a
lot of padding around it where the key
is there. It's being repeated a lot. So
it has been found. You can see a lot of
messy long outputs here coming all the
way down. We've got a nice clean one
here at 75% depth. Another one there at
75. And then down at 100. So the
outputs, while it did find the key every
time, they are a little bit messy, but
it's still 100% pass rate, so it's good.
Onto my reasoning benchmark now. So the
model scored 36 out of 48 with a 75%
pass rate here, so it's not too bad, but
you can see it's fallen down in the hard
questions a bit. So if we come down to
the actual numbers here, so eight out of
12 correct in hard, four out of 12
correct in expert, which is expert like
there's no model that's got all of these
correct. So this is to be expected hard,
it's not too bad of a result. It's
probably in line for a model, I would
say. So it's not too bad. And then
finally, moving on to our OpenAI human
eval. So this is 164 handwritten Python
challenges. This page will be linked
down below if you like to come and have
a read or try this for yourself. So
looking at the results here, this one is
possibly benchmaxed at this point
because the test is old and I will
update this one soon. But got a 95% pass
rate and of the questions answered, 97%
and that's because it's answered almost
every question, which is a really good
indicator the model's not overinking
with only four questions unanswered. So
it's a good result on this one, but take
these results with a pinch of salt. All
right, so let's move into our coding
challenges now. Starting with our
cananban, our front-end web development
test. So, initially the model came back
and it had an error in the console when
I tried to run the application and this
was at 44.5%
of context used. So, not too bad. So, I
gave this error straight into the model
and let it work away at fixing this. So,
after I gave this issue to the model, it
went back and worked and fixed it almost
immediately. But then I had these
issues. So only another 1% of context
use and I said I could only see a card
adding if I refresh the label text is
not showing on the creation modal card
archive and restore only if refreshing.
So basically nothing would really update
unless I refreshed. So the model went
away and worked through these list of
issues but it's probably all in the same
issue really. You can see it's updating
the set state here. So it's just a state
management issue essentially. So it
didn't take too long to work through the
files and update this set state. So the
model came back again at 57.7% of our
context use. And at this point I just I
couldn't add a label to a card. So the
bug or feature tag. So prompted that.
The model worked away at this. It then
came back at 62% context used and I said
I still can't press the tag button on
the card and it does nothing. There's no
errors in the console even. So it worked
away again. And this is finally where we
are now. So, we're at 66.9%
context used and the model had delivered
what I thought was acceptable. So, if we
come over to our browser, I have tested
everything here already. So, all the
features are working. So, we can move
the cards around. We get a nice done
state when they move to the done column.
You get like a preview of where the
cards going to go. So you can see see
there you can move the columns around
and they move in real time like this
with a like faded outline of it which I
think is really really nice considering
how terrible moving columns can quite
often be on this test. This is probably
one of the best if not the best
implementations I've seen of moving the
columns around. I really really like
this. So, in the end, the model did get
there after not too much context. And I
think what it's delivered is a very good
result. So, we'll move on over to our
sand physics now. And this came back in
a zero shot. I did not have to say
anything to the model after the initial
prompt. We're at 24.7%
of our context used. And this is what we
have. So, I think it's done a pretty
decent job other than the water's not
perfect.
It's a bit splashy. I don't know how to
describe it, but yeah, the water's not
perfect here, but it's not
Yeah, I don't know what's going on
there. It's like passing through
somehow.
So, yeah, the water's definitely not
perfect at the moment on this one. But I
think another prompt you could probably
get it there, but it's not too bad what
the model's done here. So, moving on to
our dungeon crawler now, or dungeon of
the shrouded deep as the models called
it. So, this one was a oneshot. The
model came back at 12.8% 8% context
used. And the only problem was the
dungeon wasn't fully connected. So
sometimes the user would spawn in a room
that they couldn't escape. So I prompted
it again and we ended up at 17.5%
context used. And here we have our
dungeon crawler which is now functioning
very nicely. So it's done a pretty good
job on this one. The ray casting is
good.
The dungeon generation is nice. Although
I still see an unconnected room here and
I would not want to be spawning in this
one here. But generally, it's been
pretty good. I've not seen the user
spawn in one of these disconnected
rooms, so maybe there's something. Ah,
there we go. Okay, so generation's not
perfect, but for the majority of the
time, yeah, it's pretty good. It's a
decent result from the model. So, moving
into the MCP portion of the video now.
So, the difficulty is going to ramp up
for the model. We're starting with
Blender where we ask it to create a
lantern asset. So, here is the asset
that it's created.
Looks a little bit ropey if I am going
to be honest, but we haven't seen what
it looks like rendered yet. So, we'll
wait. So, we ended up here at 81.3% of
context used. No compactions, so not a
terrible amount of context usage. So, it
initially delivered at 60% of context
used, but when it did deliver, there
were no screenshots. a common theme with
a lot of models. They just don't deliver
the screenshots into the project
directory. So I asked where the
screenshots were and then it got to 70%
of context used and Blender became
unresponsive and then crashed. So I'm
not sure what the model was doing at
that point. So I reopened Blender,
prompted the model to continue and then
essentially what would happen is I would
tell it to take the screenshot and it
would take the next screenshot and as
soon as it had taken the screenshot,
Blender would crash again and then I
would start Blender up and then we would
repeat this process using a few percent
each time where it would take a
screenshot, crash the program, then I'd
reopen it and then it would take the
next screenshot after a few% of context
use crash the program. So this was how I
had to get the four screenshots
delivered. The program crashed four
times. So, we are here at our 81.3%
context used. The program had crashed
multiple times, so it was pretty painful
to get these screenshots done. And then,
if we go into our folder and look at our
wonderful screenshots to see if it was
all worth it. And this is our starful
lantern. So, there's a nice close-up
shot that's been asked of the model.
Very nice. Can't even see the light
inside. And here are some external
screen shots. So, pretty low resolution
screenshots, too. So, here's another
shot of our lovely lantern. So, yeah, I
don't know what else to say about this
one. What do you guys think of this
lantern? Let's see how it does in God.
So, into our final and most difficult
challenge of the video. So, this is
Godo, where we get the model to create a
3D platformer with moving platforms,
collectible items, and a finished skull.
So, we got two compactions here, and
we're up to 62.9% context used. So, it
wasn't a great start on this one. So the
model initially got confused about MCP
and then crashed Godo. So I at that
point was thinking after what we saw in
Blender as well, I was thinking, "Yeah,
this model's probably not going to do
Godo." But to my surprise, when I
reopened the program, told it to
continue, it actually started making
progress. So it got to 70% of context
used, no compactions yet, and the
problem was the player could jump
infinitely. The respawn would have you
respawn and then die immediately. The
floor was like ice. You would like if
you wanted to stop moving, you would
just continue like sliding across the
floor. And then the platforms weren't
moving. There were no moving platforms.
So quite a few things to fix. So I
prompted the model and then it compacted
and it kept going. And the issue was
always the same was that the movement
was really erratic and the player was
sliding around like they were on ice.
And this was every prompt I gave it was
to fix this and it would never get it
right. it would maybe the player would
move a bit slower but it would still
feel like you're on ice and then the
next time they'd move like super fast.
So this was kind of the back and forth
we had until we got to our double
compaction and 62.9% context used. So if
we launch the game, it's decent, I would
say. It won't release mouse control.
That is annoying. Okay, I'm going to
have to zoom in on this window in
editing. So here we are. The movement is
strange. So I'm pressing W right now to
go straight forwards.
And it is working, but like when I turn,
it's like it
Yeah, it's it's like I'm pressing W now
and I'm not moving entirely forwards.
I'm moving off to the side. So, the
movement is really unpredictable when
you click when you click when you
collect the keys, they
they don't uh disappear or anything like
this. And I'm sure I only collected this
one, but it says I've got two out of
three.
So yeah, movement is really difficult.
So, and it is like moving on ice still.
I could not get the model to like stop
this behavior. So, I'm going to try and
get to the end. Yeah, I've got three out
of three keys. And I definitely did not
get all the keys. So, I'm going to try
and get to the end. I will skip in
editing and save you the pain.
And there it is. The game is finished.
So yeah, the resulting GDO in this one
was okay, but it just couldn't overcome
the issues about players erratic
movement and sort of sliding on ice. So
yeah, it definitely got hung up on this.
All right, so that will bring us to the
end of this video on nail quen. So let's
have a quick summary of the results. So
I will upload this to my website. So if
you go to lukedevlab.com.
So we've got 48.4 four on the decode
speed, 200k cached on the prefill for
performance, and then just over 200 on
uncashed. Memory benchmark, it was
excellent across the board. Reasoning,
it starts to fall down as it gets to the
more difficult challenges, but that's to
be expected for ane model. I would say
human eval,
but this is definitely has the potential
to be benchmaxed as in in the training
data. And then coming down to our tests,
our agentic test. So canban, we ended up
at 66.9% context used and the result was
really nice for canban actually. I was
quite impressed with the UI in the end
for that one. Sam physics quarter of our
context used. Dungeon crawler 17.5.
These results were not too bad. Sam
physics wasn't perfect, but dungeon
crawler was pretty good in the end. Not
perfect dungeon generation though. And
then our blender lantern I would say was
pretty naff to be honest. So 81.3% of
our context used to get to that. I'm not
sure if more context would have made it
better though. And then God moving
platforms. I've given this one a fail
because it just couldn't get it right
with the player movement. It was very
difficult to play. I was on the fence
about putting the lantern as a fail, but
it developed something. It had some
semblance of a lantern, so I couldn't
really give it a fail on that one. But
back to the good moving platform. So we
had one compaction, 62.9% context, and
as we saw it, it just couldn't overcome
the issue with the erratic player
movement. So, final thoughts from me
will be on the front-end web development
side. I thought the model was actually
pretty good. So, if you're doing
front-end web development, it could be
worth giving this one a try. But as we
move on to things like sand and dungeon,
it started to slip a bit. It showed that
it wasn't perfect in these results. And
then as we ramped up the difficulty into
our MCP challenges with Blender and
GDAU, it really wasn't doing too great.
I would say if you're looking at between
nail and teal coder, I would go for teal
coder over this one. So, what do you
guys think of this model? Have you tried
it? Has it been good in your use cases?
I'd be interested to hear in the
comments below if it has been decent for
you. So, thank you for watching to the
end. I do really appreciate it. And a
huge thank you to my supporters here on
YouTube and Patreon. Give the video a
thumbs up if you enjoyed it and
subscribe if you want to see more
content like this. Bye.